I'm wandering through the forest. The sun  has set and it's getting cold. In front of me I see a large shape. It towers over me almost twice my size. It shrinks down like it got tired and fell over. Suddenly it's gone! I chase after it, and it runs through a beam of moon light. I see what it is. I get my camera and run faster. I wouldn't want to miss seeing the rare brown mountain bion.

Endangered animal
There are many endangered animals including the bion. The chances of seeing one are very low. That is because before it was against the law, bions were hunted for their dark brown fur.
Also they can’t protect themselves from humans alone. Even though they have tons of adaptations, they won't work together, even to save  their life.

Ferocious Feet
The feet are one of the main adaptations that the bion has. The feet come in handy in many different situations.
The feet have very sharp claws to catch and kill animals. Also these help protect the animals against some humans.
On the bottom of bions feet they also have pads. These thick pads help protect the bions feet from hot rocks. Regularly these rocks would burn their feet. 

Narrating Noises
Another adaption is their voice. The bion has many interesting noises. Bions are trivocal animals. That means they only make three kinds of sounds. They growl, hiss, or snort. These help the others understand each other and express their feelings. Hissing is a "keep away" sound; growling means get away, or else; and snorting means "I'm annoyed with you". But the baby cubs can purr, but only around their mom.

Fabulous Fur
One last great adaptation is the fur. Without the fur, the bion would not be able to survive the long winter. The thick, brown, silky coat helps keep the  bion warm, then later in spring it is shedded.
The fur is also a great camouflage. It helps them hide from predators, and sneak up on pray. It blends in to the bions natural environment.

Homely habitats
The bion can live in many states but mainly in Colorado. They live in the shrub and woodland areas of states, close to the mountains. They are raised with their parent for 5 years then go out on their own. They live alone in caves for many year. Some girls raise young. When they grow old they die. Anyway, their habitats have a lot of plant’s and tree’s including (from Colorado) Rocky Mountain Maple, Ponderosa Pine, and the Scrub Oak. Their habitats are very cold and in the winter there is a lot of snow. That is why they have a hard time hibernating in the winter.

Historic Hibernating
Just like bears, the hibernates in the winter. They usually sleep in caves, but if there aren’t any they'll try to find somewhere else. Bion's also use their caves more then once, they just have to clean them a bit. In preparation to hibernate, the Bion will eat about 30 lbs of food. But that isn’t enough to survive the winter. Sometimes during the winter they will wake up and go looking for food.

Amazing Omnivores
The bion is a omnivore. But most of the time they are carnivores. They eat many kinds of deer, fish, and small animals such as squirrels. Sometimes they will even eat insects! But if they can’t find any meat then they will eat fruits, nuts, or fungi. The fruits include black-berries, blue-berries, apples, and peaches. If they still can’t find any food, (which is very unlikely) they will go out to raid a humans house or trash.

Overall Animal
Over all, the bion is just amazing! Their thick fur, sharp claws and teeth, and really great eye sight. Even the tail to help them balance. That’s not even close to all of the adaptations this amazing animal has.

Word Wise 
Adaptations = a body part or action that helps the animal survive.
Habitat = a specific life zone such as a the mountains or the desert.
Camouflage = a way to hide or blend in to the surrounding environment.
Hibernate = to sleep or rest for most of the winter.
Trivocal = having three types of noise that something can make. (example: the lion was trivocal= The lion cold make three types of noise.)
